hi welcome to this week's video blog
today we're going to show you how to
install a pea stone walkway
we're here in Wellesley today we're
doing a backyard renovation we've
already laid down this patio and the
sitting wall we have plants to come
today but before we plant we want to get
this walkway in so we can tie the front
of the yard into this patio so we'll get
started so we have our base down already
this base is built to the standards that
you would have underneath the patio or
driveway it's about nine inches thick as
you can see we use geotextile fabric
underneath it that's going to help with
any settling and in the future if they
wanted to put pavers or bluestone
anything like that it's an easy fix that
take up the pea stone walk and put the
pavers or the blue stone up on top this
particular base so thing to keep in mind
is it's sometimes worthwhile to over
build your bases that way if you ever
change your mind in the future so the
materials for this project we're going
to be using a metal edging which is a
3/16 all steel metal edging that's going
to hold in our P stone you can choose
what kind of stone you're going to use
you can use a brown round P stone we're
going to use a 3/8 chipped bluestone but
it really is up to you and we'll kind of
finish material you want to use it's a
good idea to have an angle grinder or a
circular saw with a metal cutting blade
the metal edging will come with these
spikes to hold the edging in place we
also want a five pound hammer or even a
carpenter's hammer to knock in your
spikes if you haven't compacted your
base you want to do that before you put
your p stone down and you'd use a
compactor which we could either rent at
a home depot or ware store and once
that's compacted your edges in place let
your P stone we're going to show you how
this all comes together
so before we start cutting I want to go
over some safety issues the grandeur is
very loud so you want some ear muffs and
you also want some eye protection
I remember it's always important to look
good while being safe
so we're halfway through installing our
edging before you start you kind of want
to know your layout in this case we have
five and a half feet off the foundation
and once we pass the foundation it is
closing into a four-foot fly walkway so
it's as simple as this all you need to
do
there's slots in the edging for the
spikes make sure the your curve is right
or your line is correct and all you have
to do take a hammer and tap so it's time
to make a cut as simple as measuring and
cutting what we like to use is soapstone
it draws great on metal and also the
speeds where so you get a nice straight
cut we want to make this cut at 63
inches it's just as simple as using your
speed square and lining it up now you
have a line
so before you get the stone in one of
the final things to do
well that we like to do is go and
spray-paint the tops because when you're
a meringue the finish starts to chip off
and you'll actually get rust spots if
you have exposed steel which you don't
want so we just go back with some you
know some rust-oleum or krylon spray
paint spray it all down that way you
won't have any rest spots any wear and
tear on it and it gives it a nice
finished look
so we've got all of our edging in we've
got it
that's where we want it to be we've got
the spikes in we've got it freshly
painted and as you can see we've got
most of our three-eighths of blue stone
in you can use any other stone that you
might prefer whether it's pea stone or
3/4 inch stone but basically just going
to pour the stone in you want to leave a
little bit of revealed on the edging
otherwise you'll have stone kicked off
whether it's from rain rain runoff or
from just general use
you'll get stone into the beds or to the
lawn and so you just want to leave a
little bit of a edge there to retain
that stone so we're gonna go ahead and
finish this up and see how it looks
so we've got our nice finished walkway
here as you can see it brings a nice
defining edge onto the patio and we're
going to have some planting beds on
either either side if you have any
questions or comments feel free to leave
them on the blog and you'll be happy to
answer them from all of us here at the
garden continuum thanks for watching
you
ah